So our PWA now works on iOS, it's still
not working offline, but it looks good.
So service workers, so
far our PWA has As the heart man,
not the brain, so
we need to add the Service Worker.
So native apps in the store or
from the store, when you install an app
from the store, you actually
are downloading a big package, right?
So sometimes it's really big
like a couple of gigabytes.
So on that package,
you will find all the resources place.
Remember, I'm talking about native
apps that you download from the store.
Then that app can consume web services.
And if you update the app,
you need to update everything,
the whole package again,
that's native apps, okay?
And offline works because when you open an
app, all the resources that are needed for
rendering that app
are actually on your device.
That's why is tasked and
that's why it's working offline.
On classic web apps, in case you
have experience doing websites and
web apps, let me guess,
you have, you download an HTML.
The user is typing a URL, clicking on the
link and the browser downloads on HTML,
then it downloads other
resources on demand, mainly.
And then the app can consume
web services as you're used to.
But offline doesn't work
because if you're offline,
there is no way to even download the HTML.
So you don't have ob=n device,
all the resources that
are needed to render in the app.
So, but we are impressive web apps,
we are in a different world.
So in this case, it's a website, so
we are still going to download an HTML,
but
that HTML will register something
known as a service worker.
And that's a term that we have been
mentioning many times during the day.
That service worker can
install client side resources.
Then the browser will still download
resources on demand as before.
But now they can be served
by the service worker also
known as the local cache or
by the real server.
Then the app can consume web services
as usual, and now offline works, why?
Because the service worker was installed.
And the service worker
installed all the assets, or
at least many of the assets that
are needed for rendering that app.
That's why the service worker
leads to an offline experience.
But what's a Service Worker?
It's first a JavaScript file.
So it's one js file.
We can split that into several files,
but we start with one.
It has its own thread, so
the code that we're writing in
the file has its own thread.
And it acts as a middleware.
So what's a middleware?
A middleware is a piece of software
that sits between two other actors.
Like in this case,
the server and the client.
We have the browser,
we have the web server.
The service worker sits in the middle,
and it's a middleware,
meaning that I can remove it putting
on everything should work anyway.
That's a view of middleware,
it's like a plugin, if you want.
So once installed,
it can act as an installed local
web server, or a web proxy.
Let me repeat that.
This is not like the official definition,
let's say it's my definition.
The service worker is a web server,
web server that we installed client side.
So we install a web server but
client side.
Okay, so because it's a server,
it can serve files so
it's actually answering HTTP
request as if it's a server.
We're going to see this
in action in a minute.
But if you understand that idea,
then you got the message of
what a service worker is.
As well, let us serve all the assets or
at least the assets that you
want directly from the client.
So it runs client-side
within the browser's engine.
So it's like a server, but anyway
it's running in the browser's engine,
which means if we will kill
the browser's process,
you're also killing the Service Worker.
HTTPS is required, so
you cannot install or
register as service worker if
it's not a secure connection.
The only exception to that is local host,
and
not just your local IP address, it must
be the term local host in any port.
So the service worker is
installed by a web page,
any HTML within for now,
let's say your origin can install or
register a service worker, the server.
It has its own thread and
its own lifecycle,
we're going to see this
in action in a minute.
And after it was installed, it can act
as a network proxy, or local web server.
In the name of the real server,
this is also important.
The service worker is kind of
impersonating the real server.
So your webpage, your PWA,
your JavaScript content
will never know if the response
is coming from the server or
if the response is coming from
the service worker, you don't know.
And actually, you don't care, or you
shouldn't care, because it's a middleware.
If the service worker is there,
it would probably enhance the experience.
And if it's not there,
everything should work anyway, as usual.
And the service worker has some abilities
on top of what we know to run and
execute code in the background.
And the background means that you can
close the app, you can close the browser
stuff, but you can still execute
code in the background, okay?
The service worker has its own
life cycle with these abilities.
Another thing that is actually
important and if this is the first
time you're hearing about service worker,
it's a little scary.
There is no need for user's permission,
so when you get into a website
that has a service worker,
the service worker is installed silently.
You don't see any user permission dialog,
it just works, it just been installed.
Every service worker has a scope, a scope,
it's a nourishing host and import,
let's say a domain on a path.
The path is optional, or
it can be just the root folder,
which means you can have the service
worker owning the whole domain or
owning just a folder in your domain.
Which also means you can have more than
one service worker in your domain,
if they areiIn different folders,
that's the idea of the scope.
So the service worker will manage
all pages within the browser,
I'm willing to install
apps from that scope.
So every HTML, every URL within your scope
will be managed by that service worker.
So it can serve as server resources for
that scope.
Any page in the scope can
install a service worker.
So it's not like if I have
indexed HTML and index to HTML.
If index HTML is installing or
registering a service worker,
it will be for the whole scope,
including index too.
After installed,
then it will be able to serve all
the files requested from the scope.
So if the scope is requesting a PNG file,
a CSS file or a web font,
then it will be responsible.
The service worker will be responsible for
serving that resource in case it wants to,
because it's a middleware.
If it's not there, or
if the service worker says, you know what?
I don't wanna deal with these requests,
it will go to the real server anyway.
Only one service worker
is allowed per scope.
But you can have more than one
service worker in the same
origin because in that case
you have different scopes.
WebKit, that's Safari on the Mac,
and also WebKit on iOS adds
another layer of complexity here,
I don't wanna get too deep here, but
it has something known
as partition management.
With partition management,
what happens is that, if you have iFrames,
things are going to gets more complicated,
okay?
The same happens with cookies and storage.
So if you have been dealing with that,
you probably know the deal.
So the question is that if the service
worker is replacing the server but
client side,
the answer is that it's one possibility.
So it can impersonate the real server but
client side,
but you still need the real server, okay?
And so that's important,
we are not replacing the server, okay?
So it can go on top of the real server and
like a middleware,
and it can respond from in
the name of the real server.
But we always need the real server anyway.
Because the service worker can
make a different decision, or
the service worker maybe has an exception,
or is not working, or
the user uninstalled the service worker.
And in that case, the request will
go directly to the real server.
So that's why I don't wanna say that
is actually replacing it, okay?
It's like working with,
it's working with the real server to
actually serve defies client side.
So we have a question about installation.
Can we defer the installation or
registration of the service worker?
Or is this going to reinstall
on the first load automatically?
You decide when you register
the service worker.
So it's actually on a JavaScript API.
So it depends on when are we calling
the API is going to register the service
worker immediately or later.
So the most common scenario is to
register the service worker as
soon as possible, but
there is no need for that.
And for example, when we have
a large client side apps such as
a big React app from a couple
of megabytes, don't do that.
But in case you have that,
maybe we wanna defer the service worker
registration after the app
was loaded actually.
Because you don't wanna mess with
that already a slow process with
the service worker registration